Update to the Context API documentation (#7565)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 16/umbraco-cms/customizing/foundation/context-api/README.md

---
description: >-
  Learn about the Context API for sharing data and functionality between
  backoffice extensions through the component hierarchy.
---

# Context API

The Context API is a powerful communication system in Umbraco's backoffice. It enables extensions to share data and functionality through the component hierarchy without tight coupling. Think of it as a way for different parts of your UI to talk to each other and access shared services.

Contexts are used throughout the Umbraco backoffice to provide access to workspace data, notifications, user information, and many other services. When building custom extensions, you'll often need to consume existing contexts or create your own to share functionality between your components.

## Key Concepts

The Context API is built on a few core principles:

* **Provider-Consumer Pattern**: Parent elements provide contexts that descendant elements can consume
* **Loose Coupling**: Components don't need direct references to each other
* **Hierarchical**: Contexts flow down through the DOM tree
* **Type-Safe**: Context Tokens ensure you get the right context

> Whether you're building property editors, workspace extensions, dashboards, or any other backoffice UI, the Context API provides a structured way to access and share functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Context API provides a structured way to access and share functionality when building property editors, workspace extensions, dashboards, or any other backoffice UI.
```
